Module-Syllabus.md, before:

---
title: Teaching Module Syllabus: CS Education Research
layout: template
filename: Module-Syllabus.md
---

<style>
.tablelines table, .tablelines td, .tablelines th {
        border: 1px solid black;
        }
</style>

<nav>
        <a href="https://monawade0507.github.io/Non-Thesis-Graudate-Portfolio-/">Home</a>  |
        <a href="https://monawade0507.github.io/Non-Thesis-Graudate-Portfolio-/CSEduResearch">CSEduResearch</a>
</nav>
&emsp;
&emsp;
&emsp;

# Module Goal

### Intended audience:  
Undergraduate students that have completed their freshman course load and whom intended to major or minor in computer science.  

## Module Description:

## Prerequisites:
Students are expected to have a taken a foundational course in computer science that would have given them exposure to a high-level object-oriented coding language (examples are Java, Python, etc.). In addition, a basic understanding of C++ 11 is expected which includes basic data types, function and class definition, high level program design, etc.  

## Learning Outcomes:
By the end of this module, students should be able have a firm understanding of the following subjects:
- Be able to distinguish the differences between a "smart" point and a raw pointer; functionality of heap-allocated memory management.  
- Identify methods and libraries used for resource management; understand the connection between object lifetime and garbage collection.
- Demonstrate the rules of managing the lifecycle of an object using special functions; Distinguish between "the rule of zero" by avoiding definitions of default operations or "the rule of three" by defining a destructor, copy constructor, and copy assignment constructor.
- Identify functions, libraries, and methods that C and C++ have for memory lifecycle; Categorize the variations of memory management of C and C++.

## Assessments:


## Course Schedule:

| Week | Pre-work |  Topic  | Assignment |
| ---- | -------- | ------- | ---------- |
| _Week 1_ | read <a href="https://mines0-my.sharepoint.com/:p:/g/personal/dwade_mines_edu/EajUf2-NXLpAsAA7AMmKT4YBfaslnOLkQNg4QXOQPdWfZQ?e=hONA0I">Pre-lecture notes</a> | Smart and Raw Pointers | |
| _Week 2_ | read <a href="https://mines0-my.sharepoint.com/:p:/g/personal/dwade_mines_edu/Ecprx2yrBqBPnPvT8R8VRTwBQuNOh1tKsp-a9YLIIpiP-w?e=bXDr94">Pre-lecture notes</a> | Resource Management | |
| _Week 3_ | read <a href="https://mines0-my.sharepoint.com/:p:/g/personal/dwade_mines_edu/EY4nh1xZ3JZDoQWAXPI4N7sBVhlkmbzD1Gcx9f6GJw0AEA?e=BxcIRF">Pre-lecture notes</a> | Rule of Zero and Rule of Three  | |
| _Week 4_ | read pre-lecture notes | C vs C++  | |

### Required Text

C++ FAQs 2
ND Edition
Cline, Lomow, Girou
Addison-Wesley Professional (December 21, 1998)
ISBN-13: 978-0201309836

### Recommended Text
Smart and raw pointers: 
 - <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/cpp/pointers-cpp?view=msvc-170">Microsoft - C++ Pointers</a> 
 - <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smart_pointer">Wiki - Smart Pointers</a> 
 - <a href="https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/smart-pointers-cpp/">Geeks For Geeks - Smart Pointers</a> 

Rule of Zero and Rule of Three
- <a href="https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44997955/rule-of-zero-confusion">StackOverflow - Rule of Zero confusion?</a>
- <a href="https://accu.org/journals/overload/22/120/alday_1896/">Enforcing The Rule of Zero</a>
- <a href="https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/destructors-c/">Geeks for Geeks - Destructor</a>
- <a href="https://www.feabhas.com/sites/default/files/2016-06/Rule%20of%20the%20Big%20Five.pdf">The Rule of the Big Five</a>

### Design of the module reflects research cited in the Cambridge handbook:

With the modules’ intended audience and prerequisites, chapter 27 about overcoming students’ prior knowledge and addressing novice learners. There are tips on how to organize the intended information to make sure it is digestible. It is also worth considering information from chapter 19 about computing how to transfer computing skills to other disciplines. I mentioned in the intended audience those students whom are minoring in computer science are welcome to this module. That mean the lessons need to be tailored to a broader audience. There should be consideration given to limited “technical speech” and wider terms and concepts used to connected with diverse students. Lastly for writing and presenting the lectures, chapter 8 describes multiple ways that students learn. Taking into account a wider understanding of cognitive sciences will ensure that students can absorb lesson.

_"Fincher,_ _S. A.,_ _&_ _Robins,_ _A._ _V._ _(Eds.)._ _(2019)._ _The_ _Cambridge_ _handbook_ _of_ _computing_
_education research. Cambridge University Press."_


### Assignment Reasoning and Justification

Commit message:

Added assignment and grading policy

Module-Syllabus.md, after:

---
title: Teaching Module Syllabus: CS Education Research
layout: template
filename: Module-Syllabus.md
---

<style>
.tablelines table, .tablelines td, .tablelines th {
        border: 1px solid black;
        }
</style>

<nav>
        <a href="https://monawade0507.github.io/Non-Thesis-Graudate-Portfolio-/">Home</a>  |
        <a href="https://monawade0507.github.io/Non-Thesis-Graudate-Portfolio-/CSEduResearch">CSEduResearch</a>
</nav>
&emsp;
&emsp;
&emsp;

# Module Goal

### Intended audience:  
Undergraduate students that have completed their freshman course load and whom intended to major or minor in computer science.  

## Module Description:

## Prerequisites:
Students are expected to have a taken a foundational course in computer science that would have given them exposure to a high-level object-oriented coding language (examples are Java, Python, etc.). In addition, a basic understanding of C++ 11 is expected which includes basic data types, function and class definition, high level program design, etc.  

## Learning Outcomes:
By the end of this module, students should be able have a firm understanding of the following subjects:
- Be able to distinguish the differences between a "smart" point and a raw pointer; functionality of heap-allocated memory management.  
- Identify methods and libraries used for resource management; understand the connection between object lifetime and garbage collection.
- Demonstrate the rules of managing the lifecycle of an object using special functions; Distinguish between "the rule of zero" by avoiding definitions of default operations or "the rule of three" by defining a destructor, copy constructor, and copy assignment constructor.
- Identify functions, libraries, and methods that C and C++ have for memory lifecycle; Categorize the variations of memory management of C and C++.

## Grading Policy:
All grades are based on the cumulative grade point average of three quizzes, one short-response essay, and one summative assessments. The general grading scale is as follows:
&emsp;
90% - 100% = A
&emsp;
80% - 89% = B
&emsp;
70% - 79% = C
&emsp;
60% - 69% = D
&emsp;
0% - 59% = F
&emsp;

## Course Schedule:

| Week | Pre-work |  Topic  | Assignment |
| ---- | -------- | ------- | ---------- |
| _Week 1_ | read <a href="https://mines0-my.sharepoint.com/:p:/g/personal/dwade_mines_edu/EajUf2-NXLpAsAA7AMmKT4YBfaslnOLkQNg4QXOQPdWfZQ?e=hONA0I">Pre-lecture notes</a> | Smart and Raw Pointers | <a href="https://mines0-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/dwade_mines_edu/ETdSlHDQow1CiKBNpd1aq8MB5wK60ojzgA_jcGFOoYV0bw?e=KbxiHd">Assessment #1 - Smart and Raw Pointers</a>  |
| _Week 2_ | read <a href="https://mines0-my.sharepoint.com/:p:/g/personal/dwade_mines_edu/Ecprx2yrBqBPnPvT8R8VRTwBQuNOh1tKsp-a9YLIIpiP-w?e=bXDr94">Pre-lecture notes</a> | Resource Management | |
| _Week 3_ | read <a href="https://mines0-my.sharepoint.com/:p:/g/personal/dwade_mines_edu/EY4nh1xZ3JZDoQWAXPI4N7sBVhlkmbzD1Gcx9f6GJw0AEA?e=BxcIRF">Pre-lecture notes</a> | Rule of Zero and Rule of Three  | |
| _Week 4_ | read pre-lecture notes | C vs C++  | |

### Required Text

C++ FAQs 2
&emsp;
ND Edition
&emsp;
Cline, Lomow, Girou
&emsp;
Addison-Wesley Professional (December 21, 1998)
&emsp;
ISBN-13: 978-0201309836

### Recommended Text
Smart and raw pointers: 
 - <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/cpp/pointers-cpp?view=msvc-170">Microsoft - C++ Pointers</a> 
 - <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smart_pointer">Wiki - Smart Pointers</a> 
 - <a href="https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/smart-pointers-cpp/">Geeks For Geeks - Smart Pointers</a> 

Rule of Zero and Rule of Three
- <a href="https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44997955/rule-of-zero-confusion">StackOverflow - Rule of Zero confusion?</a>
- <a href="https://accu.org/journals/overload/22/120/alday_1896/">Enforcing The Rule of Zero</a>
- <a href="https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/destructors-c/">Geeks for Geeks - Destructor</a>
- <a href="https://www.feabhas.com/sites/default/files/2016-06/Rule%20of%20the%20Big%20Five.pdf">The Rule of the Big Five</a>

### Design of the module reflects research cited in the Cambridge handbook:

With the modules’ intended audience and prerequisites, chapter 27 about overcoming students’ prior knowledge and addressing novice learners. There are tips on how to organize the intended information to make sure it is digestible. It is also worth considering information from chapter 19 about computing how to transfer computing skills to other disciplines. I mentioned in the intended audience those students whom are minoring in computer science are welcome to this module. That mean the lessons need to be tailored to a broader audience. There should be consideration given to limited “technical speech” and wider terms and concepts used to connected with diverse students. Lastly for writing and presenting the lectures, chapter 8 describes multiple ways that students learn. Taking into account a wider understanding of cognitive sciences will ensure that students can absorb lesson.

_"Fincher,_ _S. A.,_ _&_ _Robins,_ _A._ _V._ _(Eds.)._ _(2019)._ _The_ _Cambridge_ _handbook_ _of_ _computing_
_education research. Cambridge University Press."_
